Hey you guys are welcome to this lecture aren't working to a specification.
Now it is not as dull as it first sounds.
There's lots of little gems in here.
So you're probably already thinking about specification as in what size it is what colours you're going
to use etc. etc..
But there's something that's more important than that and that is your own internal specification.
Now not only is that going to save you time but it can save you a lot of effort.
If you're not working to an internal specification then you're going to end up wasting your time and
spending effort on something that perhaps doesn't need it in the first place.
So by the end of this we're going to be learning how to generate your own specification.
If you think about straying outside a specification it means that you're probably doing work now that
doesn't have any bearing on the final project that you're working on now.
Making consistent icons within your game or anything else that you're working on is going to be important
and a specification can help with that with even colour themes with sizes with levels of detail.
What the icons are going to look like etc. etc..
There's lots of things but being consistent when you've got a group of icons is very important.
Now understanding some of the specification choices that you can make can also change the other ones
that you can possibly pick.
So if you go ahead and say you wanted something realistic Well how are you going to do an area of effects
spell.
Realistically some of them just don't work in certain context.
Now really good resources Good both Google and Apple for the Android in IAW system have very very detailed
specifications for how apps should look on their mobile devices and that's to give a consistent feel
from app to app and make people feel safe essentially in a place as they're going through.
And this is important in your game as well.
If you don't have that consistency across the style consistency across the game it'll just look like
loads of different things have all come together in one place and that's just no good.
We want to avoid that and get that under our belts right from day one.
So let's talk about binary choices.
What are binary choices.
Well there's simply this or that not some in between or anything along those lines.
So we've got a list of about six items I think is that we're going to go through now to give you an
idea of specifications and I will add some of my own at the end as well.
So looking real or is Icon sized.
This is a design choice that you can make at any stage you can try both is looking real when it's small
more difficult than making it look.
I'm convinced there's lots of choices you can go through with that too.
All three in appearance so is something coming out.
Is there a fist coming out towards you like that or is it just a fist like that looking up.
So there's lots of different options you can have when laying out your icons and they can give you a
different feel.
Of course if you choose to do one maybe a 3D one where it comes bursting out.
Then if you've got a flat looking khonsari 2D looking like then it's going to stand out as different
from the other ones.
Transparency other parts of the image see through.
Now this can have a big impact because if you can see what's behind your icons that can change the whole
feel of how it's laid out.
Or perhaps part of your icon sticks out from with in sort of its frame that it worked.
It sat in now shading.
We've got flat shading all the way through to realistic.
Now we are basically talking about whether or not you go for that realistic look when it comes to texturing
your image does it look like it's a real piece of wood or does it look like it's a cartoon piece of
wood.
Of course there can be any degree of freedom in between.
But if you make one extreme or the other it certainly makes it easier to know what your output is going
to be.
Square edged rounded square or even down to a circle.
Now these are choices design choices that you need to make early on because that's square and then on
that circular ultimately has different proportions when you're making the item in the middle of that.
That frame essentially and finally axis of symmetry.
Or mirroring.
It doesn't have to always be symmetry.
Now this can be incredibly important and can convey a structured feel to your to your icons.
However it can be incredibly restrictive as well.
But of course you can take elements of these.
So it is rather in this case it's a choice of whether you go for an axis of symmetry or not at all.
And of course one of the other things you can do that's not on this list because it's not really about
your decisions on your design it's more about you at this point in time especially if you're a beginner.
We don't want you really really focussing hours and hours on one image.
You're not going to be able to produce great work if you spend hours on one image.
I'm sure there's one of you out there that can do.
But if you practice with many many many images then you're going to be able to output far more you're
going to learn a lot quicker as you produce more and more work.
There's a fable about Potter but I'm not going to go through that right now.
Now what I tend to do personally is I set myself a time limit and it should go ahead and set it on my
watch or whatever and say 10 minutes or so.
Especially early on when you're making icons like this.
Ten minutes is all it takes to get a good Icom out there and that's it.
Later on you can revisit that and spend another 10 20 30 minutes tidying up once.
That's one of your chosen icons that you want to go for.
So produce many produce lots fail fast and you'll get there.
Now breaking your rules we've just set a load of specifications out there and rules are meant to be
broken right.
Kind of.
There are there is always some leeway but you can have break little things whilst keeping the general
principle.
So if you've got symmetry it doesn't have to be perfect symmetry or perfect mirroring.
There can be some difference in your icon itself.
However if the general feel of it is there then it will be consistent with all of your other icons that
you produce.
If you just completely throw the rule book out the window then you going to be inconsistent because
you're not going to be working to that specification anymore and slip into your special ops too far.
This is what I've just said slipping too far from your specification is going to lead to inconsistency
and your iKON's won't look like they're part of a single group.
Finally Consistency is important with a collection now.
You might have thought that I've just said consistency several times.
I hope it's sinking in.
It is incredibly important when you're creating a collection or working on a larger project that everything
fits together like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle.
You might not know where they all go at the moment but at least let's get them the right side up so
the image is facing upwards.
In that analogy.
Okay so now that we've had a good chat about working to a specification I'm like you guys now to think
carefully about your specification and we're going to do that now through the form of a challenge.
Okay so your challenge is going to be to write down six binary constraints so the things that you're
going to pick from.
A yes or no this or that and pick one from each category.
Once you've done this of course Congratulations you'll have a specification.
And of course I would like to know what that specification is so we can hold you to it as you go through
your projects.
Let us know what you have picked.
Okay so just a reminder now of the six binary constraints that we've come up with there.
Over here on the side and if you want to use all or none of them feel free to do so.
We don't mind at all.
But remember whatever you pick.
That's what you're going to be sticking to for the rest of this particular section.
Balls of video now and give that a go.
Hey you guys welcome back.
So what did we choose.
Well in this case I have chosen to go for an icon.
That gives me more options with things like area of effect 2D or 3D.
I'm going to go for more of a 3-d appearance.
Transparency are parts of the image see through me.
This is good to be.
Yes I do want to have some transparency in my image shading flat through realistic.
I'm going to go for flat rather than realistic.
That means that I can probably have more flat colours through flatulence throughout my work for undoing
which will also hopefully speed up my process as well.
Square rounded circular we are going to go four square and then finally access the symmetry or mirroring.
No we're not going to have that as a rule that has to be stuck to or certainly not.
If you are that's great.
What I've chosen is my choice.
What you've chosen is yours.
Do you remember to share that in the discussions and I will see you guys in the next lecture.